		DEVELOPMENT SETUP

1. Select Your Operating System (OS):
   Choose an operating system that best suits your preferences and project requirements. Download and Install Windows 11

- My PC came with windows 11 pre-installed. However I had to remove certain Execution
Policies on my PC in order to run some software. 


2. Installing an Integrated Development Environment.
Step 1: Visit the Official website of the Visual Studio Code using any web browser like Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge (in my case I used Google Chrome: https://code.visualstudio.com/download) 
 

Step 2: Press the “Download for Windows” button on the website to start the download of the Visual Studio Code Application.
 

Step 3: When the download finishes, then the Visual Studio Code Icon appears in the Downloads folder.

                                                                  

Step 4: Click on the Installer icon to start the installation process of the Visual Studio Code.
Step 5: After the Installer opens, it will ask you to accept the terms and conditions of the Visual Studio Code. Click on I accept the agreement and then click the Next button.
                    

Step 6: Choose the location data for running the Visual Studio Code. It will then ask you to browse the location. Then click on the Next button.
                

Step 7: Then it will ask to begin the installation setup. Click on the Install button. 

               

Step 8: After clicking on Install, it will take about 1 minute to install the Visual Studio Code on your device.
                    

Step 9: After the Installation setup for Visual Studio Code is finished, it will show a window like this below. Tick the “Launch Visual Studio Code” checkbox and then click Next.  

            


Step 10: After the previous step, the Visual Studio Code window opens successfully. Now you can create a new file in the Visual Studio Code window and choose a language of yours to begin your programming journey!
           

- So this is how we successfully installed Visual Studio Code on our Windows system. The steps mentioned in the above guideline can be used in any kind of Windows Browsers for Downloading & Installation VS Code on Windows 10. So, try these steps to get the VS Code IDE on your device as well.
